# I18n Addon

The *i18n* add-on allows you to easily use translations and date formatting.

### Requires

This plugin is **not** loaded by default. To use it you must add *i18n-plugin* to the **YUI.add()** requires array.

    YUI.add('test', function(Y) {
        // Controller code
    }, '0.0.1', {requires: ['mojito', 'i18n-plugin']});

## API

The *API* described here is available through the first argument in a controller function.

    index: function(ac) {
        ac.i18n.lang('TITLE');
    }

### .i18n.lang(key)

* *key*: A **string**
* *return*: A **string**

### .i18n.formatDate(date, format)

* *key*: A **Date** object
* *format*: [optional] A date format **string**
* *return*: A **string**

#lang directory and lang js files

In YUI3 the way internationalization works is that if you are using YUI Builder you need to specify resource bundles in JSON or YRB format which will
automatically be converted into the format expected by the loader. For this all you have to do is specify the source files in the module/lang directory.

In mojito, we have created the lang directory to specify the source files. Also since we are not using YUI Builder, instead of specifying the resource bundles 
in YRB or JSON format we need to produce javascript files in the following format:
   
     YUI.add("lang/Flickr_de", function(Y) {

        Y.Intl.add(

        "Flickr",   // associated module
        "de",       // BCP 47 language tag

        // key-value pairs for this module and language
        {
            TITLE: "Hallo! genießen Sie Ihre Bilder"
        }
        );
     }, "3.1.0", {requires: ['intl']});

Now we are ready to use the language "de" for our mojit.

# Examples

    YUI.add('test', function(Y) {
    
        function Controller() {}
    
        Controller.prototype = {
    
            index: function(ac) {
    
                var dateString = ac.i18n.formatDate(new Date());
                var message = ac.i18n.lang('MESSAGE');
                
                ac.done({date: dateString, message: message});
                
            }
    
        };
    
        Y.mojito.registerController('test', Controller);
    
    }, '0.0.1', {
        requires: ['mojito', 'i18n-plugin'], 
        lang: ['de', 'en_US']
    });
